The Enum in Java is a data type which contains a fixed set of constants.

The Java enum constants are static and final implicitly.

Enums are used to create our own data type like classes. The enum data type (also known as Enumerated Data Type) is used to define an enum in Java.

Java Enum internally inherits the Enum class, 
so it cannot inherit any other class, but it can implement many interfaces. 
We can have fields, constructors, methods, and main methods in Java enum.


Points to remember for Java Enum
Enum improves type safety
Enum can be easily used in switch
Enum can be traversed
Enum can have fields, constructors and methods
Enum may implement many interfaces but cannot extend any class because it internally extends Enum class.

Java compiler internally adds values(), valueOf() and ordinal() methods within the enum at compile time. It internally creates a static and final class for the enum.

Constructor of enum type is private. If you don't declare private compiler internally creates private constructor.

For the below class,

enum Season{  
WINTER(10),SUMMER(20);  
private int value;  
Season(int value){  
this.value=value;  
}  
} 

Code generated by compiler
final class Season extends Enum  
{  
public static Season[] values()  
{  
return (Season[])$VALUES.clone();  
}  
public static Season valueOf(String s)  
{  
return (Season)Enum.valueOf(Season, s);  
}  
private Season(String s, int i, int j)  
{  
super(s, i);  
value = j;  
}  
public static final Season WINTER;  
public static final Season SUMMER;  
private int value;  
private static final Season $VALUES[];  
static   
{  
WINTER = new Season("WINTER", 0, 10);  
SUMMER = new Season("SUMMER", 1, 20);  
$VALUES = (new Season[] {  
WINTER, SUMMER  
});  
}  
} 


Can we create the instance of Enum by new keyword?

No, because it contains private constructors only.

Can we have an abstract method in the Enum?
Yes, Of course! we can have abstract methods and can provide the implementation of these methods.

